alright now I'm going to go through some
novel techniques for the exercises I
just went over that's just some ways to
easily loop those chords around you're
gonna probably find at first when you're
shifting like through the very first
exercise for fret 3 to fret 7 it's hard
to keep both fingers in place and land
where you're wondering where you're
going for usually moving down the neck
from a high fret to the low fret it's a
little bit tougher than those enough
words for some reason so what I'm gonna
do one thing that really helps is we've
got just two chords going on here I'm
gonna when they after I get started I'm
here in my third fret ready just start
from there all I have to do is strum
four times so instead of just staring at
my hand and waiting to the last minute
to think about my change I'm gonna
actually target my change I'm gonna just
keep an eye on just stare at the seventh
fret basically in the ninth fret of the
a string that makes changes we went over
it with two so that way I'm not waiting
till the last minute I'm not going to
hesitate or actually miss the fret so
I'm gonna be more right on target that
way and once I get to seven and nine I'm
gonna start targeting back to three and
five so that's gonna avoid the chords
coming together really choppy or not
quite getting them on the spot it's
gonna kind of come across really clean
if I don't do that it's really easy to
you'll hear like a break in between
basically it would be something like
this
instead I want to be able to just jump
snap right into those cords
all right so another technique that
makes it a lot easier to move freely
across the strings like this is I'm not
gonna keep squeezing down I'm gonna keep
pressure down like I'm holding the court
yet when I go to make that movement if I
do do that I'm gonna make a slide and
eventually it want to do slides but you
don't want to do when they're not
supposed to be there basically if I hold
down and I just slide my hand across the
strings keeping pressure on the frets
it's gonna sound like this
I'll get that slide it makes a little
tougher trying to slide when you're
first starting out with them so we're
gonna do is a technique that's kind of
like hopping to the next fret we're not
actually gonna let go the strings to
jump to our to make our change we're
gonna just really release some of the
pressure of how we're holding the note
sound we're gonna still make contact
with the string so we don't lose our
chord altogether and I'm gonna play my
four four chords from there I'm gonna as
pretty much as soon as I start to move
over I'm just relieving releasing some
of the pressure and I'm gonna drop back
down on the seven so it's almost like a
jumping motion and you just kind of snap
into it quickly that way and you won't
get that those notes sliding in between
that's gonna make it much much easier to
move next we'll take a look at the
second part of the exercise which
involves the string change there's a
couple ways to do this
we can either both fingers just jump
straight down and actually leave to the
next so it goes from E - a - a - D and
just jumps right straight down so we're
like if you're playing open chords and
you're making a playing an E major
chords and you come straight down to an
a minor it's the same fingering just
dropping right down a string so
everything has to come up to go to the
next string so that's one way to do it
another way makes a little bit easier
and that's to keep your first finger
planted your index fingers in a state
planet on that third fret and now
instead of always playing on our finger
tips our first finger is gonna actually
flatten out like we're like we do when
you play a barre chord I'm gonna use a
flat part of my finger of my index
finger to uh hold down the D and a
string at the same time
on the third fret so now what's gonna
happen is it's just my ring finger
that's gonna jump down to the D string
to make the change as back and forth
like that my first finger is just gonna
stay planted right there
and now both of these kind of have their
pros and cons keeping the first finger
planet what happens then is when you're
first getting you some power chords
before starting out you're gonna maybe
find you have a hard time getting the
strings you want to play on e and a
isn't so bad since they're the top two
but when we're trying to plan a and D
and not hit that east string it can get
in the way you will accidentally hit
that first so what if we're holding down
still on the third fret of the E string
and we accidentally include that E
string we're not gonna do anything
terrible that way if we're gonna just
add an octave to the chord it's still a
power chord because this power chord
starting on the third fret of the a
string we're holding a seat and then our
fifth note the ring finger note on the
fifth fret of the d-string it's playing
a G so if I add that third fret in on
the E string on the low E string I'm
just adding a lower G so that's just
adding an octave I'll play it without
all the East
but it's not going to be a note that
doesn't belong to the court if you're
playing in an open or let's say we're
holding on the fifth fourth and sixth
fret of the d-string
so it's kind of a good like back-up plan
basically so you're safe from
accidentally over strumming and hitting
and hitting the E string all right
next the final technique we'll start
getting to for this part is muting the
strings with your index finger so that
is gonna help you avoid hearing the the
length of the other strings that you
don't want to hear in the chord we're if
we're playing on the E and a string we
don't want to hit the D G B or high E
strings and when you're strumming it's
kind of it takes a little while to get
used to that
so what I'll do is I'm gonna hold the
chord like normal we'll say we'll go to
the 5th and 7th fret 5 on to e7 on a and
I'm on my fingertips right now and what
I'm going to do is let my index finger
just kind of relax and like flat across
the strings I'm not pushing down like a
barre chord I'm just resting it across
the other strings so now it's gonna make
a string if I play on strings D G B and
E that's all you hear now it does make
some sound but the the notes of the
power chord are going to drill that out
so now I can strum all the way through
and still just hear the e of a string
that's very helpful technique we're
trying to have just kind of first maybe
go one string at a time to make sure
you're not excellently pushing down on
the DRG strings getting a different
cording and that's going to be it for
this section of the video I'll do one
more section on a little bit more
advanced exercises on getting the power
cord moved around and just different
shapes to really get used to and quit
with it